packages/providers/upload-aws-s3/README.md, before:

# @strapi/provider-upload-aws-s3

## Resources

- [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Links

- [Strapi website](https://strapi.io/)
- [Strapi documentation](https://docs.strapi.io)
- [Strapi community on Discord](https://discord.strapi.io)
- [Strapi news on Twitter](https://twitter.com/strapijs)

## Installation

```bash
# using yarn
yarn add @strapi/provider-upload-aws-s3

# using npm
npm install @strapi/provider-upload-aws-s3 --save
```

## Configuration

- `provider` defines the name of the provider
- `providerOptions` is passed down during the construction of the provider. (ex: `new AWS.S3(config)`). [Complete list of options](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html#constructor-property)
- `actionOptions` is passed directly to the parameters to each method respectively. You can find the complete list of [upload/ uploadStream options](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html#upload-property) and [delete options](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html#deleteObject-property)

See the [documentation about using a provider](https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/plugins/upload.html#using-a-provider) for information on installing and using a provider. To understand how environment variables are used in Strapi, please refer to the [documentation about environment variables](https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/optional/environment.html#environment-variables).

### Provider Configuration

`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  upload: {
    config: {
      provider: 'aws-s3',
      providerOptions: {
        accessKeyId: env('AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID'),
        secretAccessKey: env('AWS_ACCESS_SECRET'),
        region: env('AWS_REGION'),
        params: {
          Bucket: env('AWS_BUCKET'),
        },
      },
      actionOptions: {
        upload: {},
        uploadStream: {},
        delete: {},
      },
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

#### Configuration for S3 compatible services

This plugin may work with S3 compatible services by using the `endpoint` option instead of `region`. Scaleway example:
`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  upload: {
    config: {
      provider: 'aws-s3',
      providerOptions: {
        accessKeyId: env('SCALEWAY_ACCESS_KEY_ID'),
        secretAccessKey: env('SCALEWAY_ACCESS_SECRET'),
        endpoint: env('SCALEWAY_ENDPOINT'), // e.g. "s3.fr-par.scw.cloud"
        params: {
          Bucket: env('SCALEWAY_BUCKET'),
        },
      },
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

### Security Middleware Configuration

Due to the default settings in the Strapi Security Middleware you will need to modify the `contentSecurityPolicy` settings to properly see thumbnail previews in the Media Library. You should replace `strapi::security` string with the object bellow instead as explained in the [middleware configuration](https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/required/middlewares.html#loading-order) documentation.

`./config/middlewares.js`

```js
module.exports = [
  // ...
  {
    name: 'strapi::security',
    config: {
      contentSecurityPolicy: {
        useDefaults: true,
        directives: {
          'connect-src': ["'self'", 'https:'],
          'img-src': [
            "'self'",
            'data:',
            'blob:',
            'dl.airtable.com',
            'yourBucketName.s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com',
          ],
          'media-src': [
            "'self'",
            'data:',
            'blob:',
            'dl.airtable.com',
            'yourBucketName.s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com',
          ],
          upgradeInsecureRequests: null,
        },
      },
    },
  },
  // ...
];
```

If you use dots in your bucket name, the url of the ressource is in directory style (`s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com/your.bucket.name/image.jpg`) instead of `yourBucketName.s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com/image.jpg`. Then only add `s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com` to img-src and media-src directives.

## Required AWS Policy Actions

These are the minimum amount of permissions needed for this provider to work.

```json
"Action": [
  "s3:PutObject",
  "s3:GetObject",
  "s3:ListBucket",
  "s3:DeleteObject",
  "s3:PutObjectAcl"
],
```

Commit message:

Add baseUrl and rootPath properties to s3 uploader configuration

packages/providers/upload-aws-s3/README.md, after:

# @strapi/provider-upload-aws-s3

## Resources

- [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Links

- [Strapi website](https://strapi.io/)
- [Strapi documentation](https://docs.strapi.io)
- [Strapi community on Discord](https://discord.strapi.io)
- [Strapi news on Twitter](https://twitter.com/strapijs)

## Installation

```bash
# using yarn
yarn add @strapi/provider-upload-aws-s3

# using npm
npm install @strapi/provider-upload-aws-s3 --save
```

## Configuration

- `provider` defines the name of the provider
- `providerOptions` is passed down during the construction of the provider. (ex: `new AWS.S3(config)`). [Complete list of options](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html#constructor-property)
- `actionOptions` is passed directly to the parameters to each method respectively. You can find the complete list of [upload/ uploadStream options](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html#upload-property) and [delete options](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html#deleteObject-property)

See the [documentation about using a provider](https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/plugins/upload.html#using-a-provider) for information on installing and using a provider. To understand how environment variables are used in Strapi, please refer to the [documentation about environment variables](https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/optional/environment.html#environment-variables).

If you're using the bucket as a CDN and deliver the content on a custom domain, you can get use of the `baseUrl` and `rootPath` properties to configure how your assets' urls will be save inside Strapi.

### Provider Configuration

`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  upload: {
    config: {
      provider: 'aws-s3',
      providerOptions: {
        baseUrl: env('CDN_URL'),
        rootPath: env('CDN_ROOT_PATH'),
        s3Options: {
          accessKeyId: env('AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID'),
          secretAccessKey: env('AWS_ACCESS_SECRET'),
          region: env('AWS_REGION'),
          params: {
            Bucket: env('AWS_BUCKET'),
          },
        }
      },
      actionOptions: {
        upload: {},
        uploadStream: {},
        delete: {},
      },
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

#### Configuration for S3 compatible services

This plugin may work with S3 compatible services by using the `endpoint` option instead of `region`. Scaleway example:
`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  upload: {
    config: {
      provider: 'aws-s3',
      providerOptions: {
        accessKeyId: env('SCALEWAY_ACCESS_KEY_ID'),
        secretAccessKey: env('SCALEWAY_ACCESS_SECRET'),
        endpoint: env('SCALEWAY_ENDPOINT'), // e.g. "s3.fr-par.scw.cloud"
        params: {
          Bucket: env('SCALEWAY_BUCKET'),
        },
      },
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

### Security Middleware Configuration

Due to the default settings in the Strapi Security Middleware you will need to modify the `contentSecurityPolicy` settings to properly see thumbnail previews in the Media Library. You should replace `strapi::security` string with the object bellow instead as explained in the [middleware configuration](https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/required/middlewares.html#loading-order) documentation.

`./config/middlewares.js`

```js
module.exports = [
  // ...
  {
    name: 'strapi::security',
    config: {
      contentSecurityPolicy: {
        useDefaults: true,
        directives: {
          'connect-src': ["'self'", 'https:'],
          'img-src': [
            "'self'",
            'data:',
            'blob:',
            'dl.airtable.com',
            'yourBucketName.s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com',
          ],
          'media-src': [
            "'self'",
            'data:',
            'blob:',
            'dl.airtable.com',
            'yourBucketName.s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com',
          ],
          upgradeInsecureRequests: null,
        },
      },
    },
  },
  // ...
];
```

If you use dots in your bucket name, the url of the ressource is in directory style (`s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com/your.bucket.name/image.jpg`) instead of `yourBucketName.s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com/image.jpg`. Then only add `s3.yourRegion.amazonaws.com` to img-src and media-src directives.

## Required AWS Policy Actions

These are the minimum amount of permissions needed for this provider to work.

```json
"Action": [
  "s3:PutObject",
  "s3:GetObject",
  "s3:ListBucket",
  "s3:DeleteObject",
  "s3:PutObjectAcl"
],
```
